# Global-feature classification can be acquired more rapidly than local-feature classification in both humans and pigeons

## Summary

_It was often argued that pigeons show local-feature preference, while humans show global-feature preference. In reality, we know that humans show local preference when stimuli are sufficiently large, and that stimuli tend to be large in pigeon experiments. Here we show that, for relatively small stimuli, both species exhibit global-feature preference_. 

## Abstract

When humans process visual stimuli, global information often takes precedence
over local information.In contrast, some recent studies have pointed to a
local precedence effect in both pigeons and nonhuman primates. In the
experiment reported here, we compared the speed of acquisition of two different
categorizations of the same four geometric figures.  One categorization was
on the basis of a local feature, the other on the basis of a readily apparent
global feature.  For both humans and pigeons, the global-feature
categorization was acquired more rapidly. This result reinforces the conclusion
that local information does not always take precedence over global information
in nonhuman animals.

## Resources

- [Download PDF](http://www.willslab.org.uk/pubs/2004GotoWillsLea.pdf)

## Reference

Goto, K., Wills, A.J., & Lea, S.E.G. (2004). Global-feature classification can be acquired more rapidly than local-feature classification in both humans and pigeons. _Animal Cognition, 7_, 109-113. 

Published online: 11 October 2003.

