# Predictive history in an allergy prediction task

## Summary

_The paper that launched the **learned predictiveness** cottage industry of
c. 2005-2015. Mike Le Pelley saw me report this result and interpretation at
a conference in 2002, then ran his alternate demonstration of the effect
and published it in the same year as this paper in a QJEP special issue. 
Mike's subsequent championing of the phenomenon resulted in (as of March 2021)
three times the number of citations for Le Pelley & McLaren (2003), relative 
to this manuscript_. 

## Abstract

Two experiments are reported that demonstrate rate of learning in an allergy
prediction task can be affected by the predictive history of the cues involved,
even if that history relates to outcomes different to those being currently
learned about. Predictive history is defined hereas a cue's prior status as
either a good or a poor predictor of outcomes.  Our results are problematic for
commonly employed associative theories of human contingency learning but also
provide evidence for the sort of associability-change process envisaged by
the Mackintosh (1975) theory.

## Resources

- [Download PDF](http://www.willslab.org.uk/pubs/2003lochmannwills.pdf)

## Reference

Lochmann, T., & Wills, A.J. (2003). Predictive history in an allergy prediction task. In F. Schmalhofer, R.M. Young, & G. Katz (Eds.). _Proceedings of EuroCogSci 03: The European Cognitive Science Conference_ (pp. 217-222). Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates. 

Book published: September 2003.
