# Perceptual categorization: connectionist modelling and decision rules

## Summary

_Demonstration that extended training sharpens generalization gradients; also provides a bridge in the argument against the Luce choice rule between the initial Wills & McLaren (1997) model and the more convincing empirical demonstration in Wills et al. (2000)._

## Abstract

Although it is currently popular to model human associative learning using connectionist
networks, the mechanism by which their output activations are converted to probabilities of
response has received relatively little attention. Several possible models of this decision
process are considered here, including a simple ratio rule, a simple difference rule, their
exponential versions, and a winner-take-all network. Two categorization experiments that
attempt to dissociate these models are reported. Analogues of the experiments were presented
to a single-layer, feed-forward, delta-rule network. Only the exponential ratio rule and the
winner-take-all architecture, acting on the networks’ output activations that corresponded to
responses available on test, were capable of fully predicting the mean response results. In
addition, unlike the exponential ratio rule, the winner-take-all model has the potential to
predict latencies. Further studies will be required to determine whether latencies produced
under more stringent conditions conform to the model’s predictions.


## Resources

- [Download PDF](http://www.willslab.org.uk/pubs/1998jones.pdf)

- [Autobiographical notes](auto102.md)

## Reference

Jones, F.W., Wills, A.J., & McLaren, I.P.L. (1998). Perceptual categorization: connectionist modelling and decision rules. _Quarterly Journal of Experimental Psychology, 51B_, 33-58. 

_Issue published_: 1 February 1998.
