# Speeded categorization: the effects of perceptual processing and decision-making time

## Summary

_Looks at the effects of factorially manipulating stimulus presentation time and category decision time; results seem somewhat problematic for formal models that consider either part of the process to take fixed time_. 

## Abstract

The effects of limited processing time were investigated for the binary
categorization of artificial multidimensional objects.  Following Lamberts and
Freeman (1999), in the first stage of the experiment participants learnt to
categorize 9 stimuli into two categories.  In the second stage, the same
stimuli were presented for categorization,and both the display time, and the
time available in which to make a decision, were varied independently.  It was
found that each of these variables had a significant effect on accuracy of
categorization, as well as response latency. Lamberts and Freeman(1999)
demonstrated that restricting presentation time of a certain stimulus in their
category structure caused a reversal in category assignment. We found evidence
of the same reversal, but it was dependent on the time available to make a
decision rather than the duration of stimulus display.  Importantly,changes in
accuracy due to response deadline were not explicable in terms of truncation of
processing by the limited time. The study provides an empirical investigation
of the intuitive notion that both perceptual processing and decision making
components are time dependent.

## Resources

- [Download PDF](http://www.willslab.org.uk/pubs/2003welhamschnadtwills.pdf)

## Reference

Welham, A.K., Schnadt, M.J., & Wills, A.J. (2003). Speeded categorization: the effects of perceptual processing and decision-making time. In R. Alterman, & D. Kirsh (Eds.). _Proceedings of the 25th Annual Conference of the Cognitive Science Society_ (pp. 1218-1223). Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates. 

Book published: August 2003
