## Wills (2005)

_A collection of chapters based on a symposium I organised at the Experimental Psychology Society conference in Exeter, in Spring 2003._

List of chapters (with links to the full-text of chapters for which I am an author; for other chapters, please approach the relevant authors). 

1. [Association and cognition](2005willsch1.pdf). A. J. Wills.

2. **Mental models of causation: A comparative view**. A. G. Baker, Robin Murphy, Rick Mehta, Irina Baetu

3. **On the role of controlled cognitive processes in human associative learning**. Jan De Houwer, Stefaan Vandorpe, and Tom Beckers.

4. **Assessing (in)sensitivity to causal asymmetry: A matter of degree**. Jason M. Tangen, Lorraine G. Allan, and Hedyeh Sadeghi.

5. [Connectionist models of human associative learning](2005willsch5.pdf). A. J. Wills.

6. [Integrating associative models of supervised and unsupervised categorization](2005willsch6.pdf). Jan Zwickel and A. J. Wills

7. **The role of associative history in human causal learning**. M. E. Le Pelley and I. P. L. McLaren.

8. **Elemental representation and associability: An integrated model**. Mark Suret and I. P. L. McLaren.

9. [Applications and extensions](2005willsch9.pdf). A. J. Wills.

10. **Signal-outcome contingency, contiguity, and the depressive realism effect**. Robin A. Murphy, Frederic Vallee-Tourangeau, Rachel Msetfi, and Andy G. Baker.

11. **Learning to like (or dislike): Associative learning of preferences**. Andy P. Field.



Wills, A.J. (2005, Ed.). _New Directions in Human Associative Learning_. Hove: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates. 

_Published_: 8 February 2005.

Return to [publications](publications.md).

